Meeting agenda, notes and actions for 2024-09-25 at 12 noon ET

Organizer
: Daniel Wheeler

Attendees
: - Daniel Wheeler (he/him)
  - David Montiel (he/him)
  - Zachary Trautt (he/him)
  - Trevor Keller
  - Glenn Tarcea
  - Steve DeWitt
  - Marvin Tegeler
  - Kaysuyo Thornton
  - Please add your name
 
## Links

 - [Google Meet][meet]
 - [WG GitHub repository][repo]
 - [Google Docs][docs]
 - [Previous meeting notes][previous]
 - [Proposal document][proposal]
 - [Resource links][resources]
 - [Overleaf publication][overleaf]

## Agenda

1. Any questions or items to raise for discussion (please add)
3. Reminders
    - Next WG meet
        - 2024-10-30, Wednesday, 12-noon ET
4. Meetings:
    - Meeting with Hafiz Noman (2024-09-11)
        - Discuss role
        - Importance of WR RO-Crate 
        - Try and create WR RO-Crate with a phase field example 
        - Why problem spec is important
        - Help with ontology for DefinedTerms
    - Meeting with Marvin Tegeler (2024-09-18)
        - Some misconceptions about how RO-Crate worked
        - Actions from this meeting
            - Move the RO-Crate example to GitHub
            - Document it and provide test cases
            - include isBasedOn field as problem spec
            - include some DefinedTerms
    - Meeting with David Montiel (2024-09-04)
        - Cleared up some issues with how the RO-Crate example worked
        - Why is there an initial YAML file
        - What does the code do?
7. Where are we?
    - ro-crate example
        - [gist](https://gist.github.com/wd15/4baf6e83aef80ff48af0535f2c8262be)
        - [html view](https://html-preview.github.io/?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/wd15/4baf6e83aef80ff48af0535f2c8262be/raw/7113e0cd239fc3199040078e8784eb0d2f657a44/ro-crate-preview.html)
        - [graph view](https://json-ld.org/playground/#startTab=tab-expanded&json-ld=https%3A%2F%2Fgist.githubusercontent.com%2Fwd15%2F4baf6e83aef80ff48af0535f2c8262be%2Fraw%2Fd49c12b4a4bbcd9397bcae42848b5df989b879f6%2Fro-crate-metadata.json)
        - [Some explanation](https://www.researchobject.org/workflow-run-crate/profiles/0.5/process_run_crate/)
        - [update schema](https://github.com/ResearchObject/ro-terms/)
    - [Glossary of phase field terms](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vwmF9US-_MEiattgZcQ0sQ6SGsZVMZDRb3LrknnZTlU/edit?usp=sharing)
8. What next?
    - I think we need to think about adding a `specification` or `problemDefinition` field to the top-level of the exisisting RO-Crate terms. 
        - Needs to be proposed to the [Workflow Run RO-Crate group](https://www.researchobject.org/workflow-run-crate/)
        - Will attend meeting tomorrow and raise this issue
    - Generate FiPy RO-Crate example
    - Generate PRISMS-PF RO-Crate example
    - Generate OpenPhase RO-Crate example
    - Hafiz example?
    - Upload to workflow hub?

## Notes

 - Mainly discussed the Workflow-run RO-Crate and David's and Marvin's examples
 - Need to enable wild cards in the YAML file
 - Need to move examples to GitHub
 
<!-- links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/bas-vkxi-rmq
[repo]: https://github.com/marda-alliance/phase-field-schema
[docs]: https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1zhUi3A-CXxrkh4gTkLVUOncdqAMIAXND
[previous]: https://github.com/marda-alliance/phase-field-schema/blob/main/meeting-minutes/meet-012_2024-08-28.md
[proposal]: https://github.com/marda-alliance/phase-field-schema/blob/main/proposal.md
[resources]: https://github.com/marda-alliance/phase-field-schema/discussions/5
[overleaf]: https://www.overleaf.com/project/663e34cc1c8095115e0de913

